Free code camp tutorial notes

-----------------------------------------------------------------

Angular is a frame work developed by google.
Angular is component based framework
-----------------------------------------------------------
framework vs libraries

framework contains the libraries.
libraries generally perform the specific operation.
In software development, frameworks and libraries are both tools that can help developers write code more efficiently and effectively.
 However, there are some important differences between the two.

A library is a collection of code that developers can use to perform specific tasks or functions. 
For example, a library for image processing might contain functions for resizing, cropping, and filtering images. 
Developers can use these functions in their code to perform these tasks without having to write the code from scratch.

On the other hand, a framework is a more comprehensive tool that provides a set of rules, conventions, and structures for building applications.
 A framework defines the architecture of an application and often provides a set of libraries and tools for implementing that architecture. 
For example, the Django web framework provides a set of conventions and structures for building web applications, as well as libraries for handling tasks 
like database access and user authentication.

Let's say you want to build a house. A library would be like a box of tools that you could use to perform specific tasks, 
such as a hammer, saw, or drill. You could use these tools to build the house, but you would still have to come up with the design and architecture 
of the house yourself.
On the other hand, a framework would be like hiring an architect who provides you with a set of blueprints and plans for the house, as well as a team 
of builders who will follow those plans to build the house. The architect provides you with a comprehensive set of rules, conventions, and structures for 
building the house, and the builders use those rules and conventions to build the house.


In short, libraries provide specific functionality that can be used in many different contexts, frameworks provide a more comprehensive 
 more comprehensive tool that provides a set of rules, conventions, and structures for building applications.

Another example of a framework is Angular, which is a front-end web application framework for building single-page applications. Angular provides a set of
 conventions and tools for building complex, interactive user interfaces, including a component-based architecture for building UI components, a powerful 
template engine for generating HTML, and a robust dependency injection system for managing application components.

In summary, while libraries provide pre-written code that developers can use to perform specific tasks, frameworks provide a more comprehensive structure 
and set of conventions for building applications, often including specific libraries and tools that are tailored to the framework.

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
typescript

Angular VS Angular js ?

You are confuse about headline ....yes I know
Ok without any more delay let dive in angular/angular js...
Angular and Angular js are different! yes you read it correctly
Angular js is written by two developers working in google in 2009.Initially it was named as getangular(Image attached is getangular website). 
Angular Js ,name was inspired from the the sharp angles of the most famous brackets in the programming world (</>). 
World is speeding up at that time in terms of technology and Angular js is losing its advantages .
So in 2014, Google decided to rewrite it from scratch.It is rewritten in Typescript,typescript is a superset of javascript which was developed by microsoft it is 
statically typed language.After that AngularJS used to be called simply Angular. The rewritten version was supposed to be called Angular 2. 
But since it sparked a big confusion among developers, the old version got a new affix in the form of “JS”, 
and all the new Angular versions were simply reduced to “Angular”.
 Some differences between Angular and Angular js
Angular js is written in javascript ,does not support mobile browsers,it is less manageable
wheras Angular is written in typescript,which support mobile browsers,easier to create and manage large applications.

There is interesting history behind foundation of Angular.If you are interested to know more 
about it just go through the attached links.

https://massivepixel.io/blog/angular-vs-angularjs/
https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Angular_(web_framework)
https://www.guru99.com/angularjs-1-vs-2-vs-4-vs-5-difference.html